---
title:    "FAQ"
bg:       "darkred"
color:    white
style:    left
fa-icon:  cubes
---

# FAQs

What now?

 : If you have a popup screen that reads similar to the below:

   ~~~
   HTML Tidy for Windows <vers 1st August 2002; built on Aug 8 2002, at 15:41:13>
   Parsing Console input <stdin>
   ~~~

   …and do not know what to do next, read on.

   **Tidy** is waiting for your HTML to come in, so it can parse it.
   **Tidy** is fundamentally a tool that reads in HTML cleans it up and
   writes it out again. It was developed as a program you run from the
   console prompt, but there are GUI encapsulations available, e.g.
   HTML-Kit, which you might prefer.

   From the console prompt you can run **Tidy** like this:

   `C> tidy -m mywebpage.html`

   In this case, the `-m` option requests **Tidy** to write
   the tidied file back to the same filename as it read from
   (`mywebpage.html`). **Tidy** will give you a breakdown of the problems it
   found and the version of HTML the file appears to be using.

   To get a listing of **Tidy** command line options, just type
   `tidy -?`.  To see a listing on configuration options,
   try `tidy -help-config`.  To get more info on the
   config options, see the [Quick Reference][10].

How to get support and/or file a bug report and/or feature request

 : For support and/or to file a bug report for HTACG’s **HTML Tidy**, please
   use our [bug tracker][1]. For general **Tidy** support, including different
   for versions of **Tidy** and for products that use **TidyLib**, a good location
   is the original W3C mailing list [html-tidy@w3.org][2].

Best practice to submit a bug report

 : Prior to submitting a bug report, please check that the bug is
   not already known. Many are. If you are not sure, just ask. If it
   is new bug, make sure to include at least the following information
   in your report:

   - A description of what you think went wrong.
   - The **HTML Tidy** version (find it out by running `tidy -v`),
     and operating system you are running.
   - The input that exposes the bug. A small HTML document that reproduces
     the problem is best.
   - The configuration options you’ve used. Command line options like
     `-asxml`, configuration files, etc. You may use `tidy -show-config` to
     get an overview of the active **Tidy** settings.
   - Your e-mail address for further questions and comments.

   This information is necessary to reproduce whatever is
   failing; without them we cannot help you.

   **Please include only one bug per report.** Reports with
   multiple bugs are less easy to track and some bugs may get
   missed.

Best practice to submit a feature request

 : If you want **Tidy** to do something new that it doesn’t do today
   (or to stop doing something), then it is probably a feature request.

   As with bugs, please be sure that the feature has not already
   been requested. If the feature has already been requested, you can add
   your comments to the issue tracker. If the feature has not
   already been requested, send the same information as for a bug
   report, but place special emphasis on the desired output for a
   given input, desired options, etc. Please be as specific as
   possible about what you want **Tidy** to _do_.

How Do I Control the Output Layout?

 : There are three primary options that control how **Tidy** formats your
   markup:

   - [indent][11]
   - [indent-attributes][12]
   - [vertical-space][13]

   Briefly, `indent` sets the level of left-to-right indenting
   and, somewhat, how often elements are put onto a new line.  The options
   are `yes`, `no`, and `auto`.

   `indent-attributes` is a flag that, when set, tells **Tidy** to
   put each attribute on a new line.

   `vertical-space` is a flag that, when set, tells **Tidy** to add some empty
   lines for readability.

   The default for all three is `no`.  These options may be used in
   any combination to control how you want your markup to look.  The best
   thing is to experiment a bit to see what you like. Be aware that
   `indent yes` is deprecated for production use as it will
   cause visual changes in most browsers.

   To get **Tidy** _Classic_ `--indent auto` layout, use the following options:

   ~~~
   indent: auto
   indent-attributes: no
   vertical-space: yes
   ~~~

   You can read about more pretty print options [here][14].

What version of **Tidy** should I Use?

 : The current HTACG builds are recommended. You can find these on the
   [github repository][3] or from [our website][4].

   Please continue to report examples where **Tidy** does not catch some
   ill-formed HTML, or (worse) generates ill-formed HTML. These cases have
   been significantly reduced. That said, be sure to test **Tidy** with some
   representative files from your environment.

   For building a front end (e.g. GUI or language binding), the simplest
   approach is to use **TidyLib**.  For more information about building and
   coding with **TidyLib**, see the [Introduction To **TidyLib**][5].


How do I Run a regression test?

 : You might ask, “Why should I run a regression test?” If you are a
   **Tidy** user, you might want to compare a new version of **Tidy**
   to the version you are currently running.  This is a good idea
   if you are using **Tidy** in production applications such as web
   publishing. If you are a **Tidy** developer, it is a good idea to
   run the regression test suite to make sure your fix or enhancement
   doesn’t add new bugs.

   Detecting new bugs is easier said than done because sometimes
   they are subtle and can only be seen in browsers (or one particular
   browser you don’t even have). You can catch most crashes and
   many layout problems by running the test suite as described here.

   The basic process is simple: run the test suite **before**
   and **after** making changes to **TidyLib** and compare the output
   markup and messages. Be aware that the test scripts for Windows
   (`alltest.cmd`) and Linux/Unix (`testall.sh`) place the output files in
   `tidy/test/tmp`. If you forget to run the **before** test, you can always
   download a binary or checkout the previous version of the branch you
   are testing.

   Here are the steps to evaluate the impact of a **TidyLib** change.

   Note: these steps may or may not be accurate as of 2015-February-12.
   Please [submit a bug report][1] if you verify whether or not these
   instructions still work before we do.
   {: .note}

Regression test for Windows

 : **Before** making changes:

   ~~~
   C:\tidy\test> alltest.cmd
   C:\tidy\test> ren tmp baseline
   ~~~

   **After** making changes and building **Tidy**:

   ~~~
   C:\tidy\test> alltest.cmd
   C:\tidy\test> windiff tmp baseline
   ~~~

Regression test for Mac/Linux/Unix

 : **Before** making changes:

   ~~~
   ~/tidy/test$ ./testall.sh
   ~/tidy/test$ mv tmp baseline
   ~~~

   **After** making changes and building **Tidy**:

   ~~~
   ~/tidy/test$ ./testall.sh
   ~/tidy/test$ diff -u tmp baseline > diff.txt
   ~~~


  [1]: https://github.com/htacg/tidy-html5/issues
  [2]: mailto:html-tidy@w3.org
  [3]: https://github.com/htacg/tidy-html5
  [4]: /#get_tidy
  [5]: ../developer/
 [10]: /quickref.html
 [11]: /quickref.html#indent
 [12]: /quickref.html#indent-attributes
 [13]: /quickref.html#vertical-space
 [14]: /quickref.html#PrettyPrintHeader
