---
title:    "What"
bg:       "#9CFFD9"
color:    black    
style:    left
fa-icon:  info
---

## What Tidy does

Tidy corrects and cleans up HTML content by fixing markup errors.
Here are a few examples:


- **Mismatched end tags:**

  `<h2>subheading</h3>`

  …is converted to:

  `<h2>subheading</h2>`

- **Misnested tags:**
<pre>
   &lt;p&gt;here is a para &lt;b&gt;bold &lt;i&gt;bold italic&lt;/b&gt; bold?&lt;/i&gt; normal?
</pre>

…is converted to:

    <pre>
   &lt;p&gt;here is a para &lt;b&gt;bold &lt;i&gt;bold italic&lt;/i&gt; bold?&lt;/b&gt; normal?
</pre>


-   **Missing end tags:**
<pre>
   &lt;h1&gt;heading
   &lt;h2&gt;subheading&lt;/h2&gt;
</pre>

…is converted to:

    <pre>
   &lt;h1&gt;heading&lt;/h1&gt;
   &lt;h2&gt;subheading&lt;/h2&gt;
</pre>
…and<pre>
   &lt;h1&gt;&lt;i&gt;italic heading&lt;/h1&gt;
</pre>

…is converted to:

    <pre>
   &lt;h1&gt;&lt;i&gt;italic heading&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/h1&gt;
</pre>


-   **Mixed-up tags**
<pre>
   &lt;i&gt;&lt;h1&gt;heading&lt;/h1&gt;&lt;/i&gt;
   &lt;p&gt;new paragraph &lt;b&gt;bold text
   &lt;p&gt;some more bold text
</pre>

…is converted to:

    <pre>
   &lt;h1&gt;&lt;i&gt;heading&lt;/i&gt;&lt;/h1&gt;
   &lt;p&gt;new paragraph &lt;b&gt;bold text&lt;/b&gt;
   &lt;p&gt;&lt;b&gt;some more bold text&lt;/b&gt;
</pre>


-   **Tag in the wrong place:**
<pre>
   &lt;h1&gt;&lt;hr&gt;heading&lt;/h1&gt;
   &lt;h2&gt;sub&lt;hr&gt;heading&lt;/h2&gt;
</pre>

…is converted to:

    <pre>
   &lt;hr&gt;
   &lt;h1&gt;heading&lt;/h1&gt;
   &lt;h2&gt;sub&lt;/h2&gt;
   &lt;hr&gt;
   &lt;h2&gt;heading&lt;/h2&gt;
</pre>


-   **Missing "/" in end tags:**
<pre>
   &lt;a href="#refs"&gt;References&lt;a&gt;
</pre>

…is converted to:

    <pre>
   &lt;a href="#refs"&gt;References&lt;/a&gt;
</pre>


-   **List markup with missing tags:**
<pre>
   &lt;body&gt;
   &lt;li&gt;1st list item
   &lt;li&gt;2nd list item
</pre>

…is converted to:

    <pre>
   &lt;body&gt;
   &lt;ul&gt;
   &lt;li&gt;1st list item&lt;/li&gt;
   &lt;li&gt;2nd list item&lt;/li&gt;
   &lt;/ul&gt;
</pre>


-   **Missing quotation marks around attribute values**

Tidy inserts quotation marks around all attribute values for you. It
can also detect when you have forgotten the closing quotation mark,
although this is something you will have to fix yourself.

-   **Unknown/proprietary attributes**

Tidy has a comprehensive knowledge of the attributes defined in HTML5.
That often allows you to spot where you have mis-typed an attribute.


-   **Tags lacking a terminating "&gt;"**
This is something you then have to fix yourself as Tidy cannot
determine where the "&gt;" was meant to be inserted.
